SECTION: BACKGROUND
============================================================


[Page 1]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
Background and Goals for Fellowship Training
A. Doctoral Dissertation and Research Experience

My research interests in understanding the aging process and improving the quality of life for older adults
were first developed in the three-year research assistant experience in the lab of aging and cognition at Zhejiang
University. | applied for the Zhejiang Province Undergraduate Innovation and Entrepreneurship Fellowship and
was funded to test the reliability and feasibility of using an internet administered 9-item Patient Health
Questionnaire (PHQ-9) as a depression screening tool for Chinese older adults. Furthermore, we developed a
cellphone application, integrating the function of self-diagnosis, mood monitoring, and online intervention
materials. The mobile app encompasses Problem Solving Therapy courses filmed by our team to improve
patients’ access to therapy resources. | was drawn to explore the potentials of employing information and
communication technology (ICT) to improve older adults’ quality of lives through the first experience of using
mobile technology to deliver mental health services. This research experience produced a paper published in
Asia-Pacific Psychiatry.

As a first-generation college student at Zhejiang University, | seized as many opportunities to get research
training as | possibly could. | found gratification in building new knowledge and was fascinated by the possibilities
in making positive change using research. | visited the University of Surabaya to collaborate with researchers in
Indonesia to conduct cross-culture research. | worked with Dr. Christ Mayhorn on the topic of evaluating the
social engineering of phishing attacks at North Carolina State University. | was selected as one of the three
undergraduates at Zhejiang University to work as a paid research intern at the University of Alberta at the School
of Nursing. During the three-months internship, | worked with Drs. Carole Estabrooks and Matthias Hoben on
the Translating Research in Elder Care program. | studied how does the working environments of nursing homes
affect the physical and mental health of its employees. | also participated in a systematic review on the topic of
the barriers and facilitators of oral health care for older adults residing in nursing homes, which was published in
the International Journal of Nursing Studies. My experiences at multiple cities in China, Indonesia, Canada, and
the United States exposed me to the rich cultures at diverse regions of the world, which inspires and empowers
me to research with populations with diverse backgrounds. Through working on aging-related research topics, |
realized the vast unmet needs in research and practice with the older adult population in my China and globally.
| decided to commit my research to this vulnerable group with complex challenges.

By the end of my undergraduate training, | had a strong aspire and a clear vision of becoming an investigator
in applied science. Therefore, | applied for the MSW/PhD dual degree program at the University of Southern
California Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work (USC SSW). Located in central Los Angeles, USC
provides a unique research environment for studying older adults with diverse cultural backgrounds and linguistic
preferences. Driven by my interest in employing technology to improve older adults’ health outcomes, |
participated in the Intergenerational Mobile Technology Opportunities Program (IMTOP) led by Drs. Shinyi Wu
and Iris Chi. The Intergenerational Mobile Technology Opportunities Program (IMTOP) is a mHealth intervention
that recruited college-student tutors to help older patients to learn how to use mobile technology and a health
tracking app to facilitate diabetes self-management. Using the data collected in the IMTOP intervention study,
my first-authored paper reporting the longitudinal IMTOP intervention effects in rural Taiwan won the 2018 APHA
Nobuo Maeda International Research Award. The manuscript was submitted to The Diabetes Educator and is
currently under review. Additionally, | presented more results from the IMTOP study at annual scientific meetings
of the Society of Social Work and Research and Gerontological Society of America. The hands-on research
activities conducted with IMTOP not only helped me learn substantial knowledge in designing and implementing
mobile health (mHealth) interventions but also gained excellent training in theoretical thinking and scientific
writing. Furthermore, IMTOP study leads to two more research opportunities in which | contributed significantly
— IMTOP pilot study for immigrant populations in Los Angeles and a feasibility study of an intergenerational
mHealth program for affordable housing communities (IMPAHC) in Sacramento.

Encouraged by the promising intervention effects found in Taiwan, we decided to adapt the IMTOP
intervention to meet type 2 diabetes management needs for immigrants in Los Angeles. I led [MTOP pilot study
to test the feasibility of using the technology-facilitated diabetes self-management intervention to address the
prevalent problem of type 2 diabetes (T2D) among first generation Chinese and Hispanic immigrants. The
research project adopts a mixed-method approach, using both survey and individual semi-structured interviews
to collect data. The research project is a collaboration between USC Edward R. Roybal Institute on Aging and
four community-based organizations serving recent Chinese and Hispanic immigrants. | paid weekly visits to all
four community collaborators and communicated with managers and staff members of the organizations to
formulate our research plan. | supervised 3 MSW students and one undergraduate student and provided training
in qualitative research methods and questionnaire administration. Working together, we have collected 140

Applicant's Background and Goals for Fellowship Training Page 50


[Page 2]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
questionnaires with recent immigrants with type 2 diabetes and conducted 24 in-depth individual interviews with
participants who speak Cantonese, Mandarin, and Spanish. Because of this pilot study, | had the opportunity to
work closely with community-based organizations and gained experience in data collection and research
program management. The IMTOP pilot study yields two manuscripts under preparation.

The results of the IMTOP pilot study highlighted the importance of social, cultural environments on health
outcomes. Collaborating with community-based organizations significantly increased our access to the target
population of the intervention and provided future avenues for disseminating the research results. Employing
what we learned in both [MTOP and IMTOP pilot study, Dr. Wu, Dr. Chi, and | submitted a proposal to the USC
SSW Adult Mental Health and Well-being (AMHW) department and were awarded a pilot funding for exploring
the feasibility of delivering a mobile health facilitated T2D intervention at affordable retirement communities
(ImPAHC). I served as a co-investigator on the ImPAHC study. We paid visits to three retirement communities
and conducted semi-structured interviews with professionals and staff and had focus group discussions with
older adult residents. | am working with two other graduate students to analyze the qualitative data with thematic
content analysis methods. Working with retirement housing communities inspires me to investigate the aging
process and social determinants of health through the lenses of ecological theory, which leads to my decision of
investigating the physical and social environments in my dissertation research.

Besides research opportunities provided in the doctoral program, the MSW training of the dual degree
program provided opportunities for me to gain clinical practice experience and work directly with older adults in
my field placement. [ interned at ABC Adult Day Health Care Center for 20+ hours per week during my first year
in the MSW/PhD dual degree program. In my clinical practice, | witnessed the prevalent loneliness and social
isolation among seniors and observed the strong wishes of older adults in getting connected with family and
friends. Social isolation and loneliness have become the primary outcomes in my research since then. Many
older adults came to consult me on how to use their mobile phones to contact friends and sharing meaningful
memories online with their families. My experience working closely with older adults affirm the value of
addressing social isolation by bringing information technology to older adult’s life.

My clinical practice and research experiences made me aware that the majority of the currently available
technology tools, such as social media sites, mobile health apps, are not designed with older adults’ unique
needs in mind. Older people often are not included as part of the intervention/technological tool development
team, which adds barriers for older people to learn to use technology. To address this issue, | serve as a co-
investigator on a research project, led by Drs. Wu and Chi, employing a participatory co-design approach to
develop a caregiver self-management program (CSMP) app for the Chinese immigrant caregivers of older adults.
The co-design CSMP app proposal was funded by the USC Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI)
and AMHW pilot awards. We have completed the conceptual design, interactive prototype testing, and internal
real-life condition testing phases of the co-design process. | am currently working with a graduate student
colleague to conduct qualitative data analysis and drafting the manuscript reporting the unique needs of the
Chinese immigrant caregiver population and their acceptance of technology-facilitated interventions. The CSMP
app co-design study preliminarily supported the feasibility of delivering a traditional in-person intervention with a
mobile technology platform. | also gained first-hand experience using the co-design process for intervention tool
development and pilot research.

| pursued my interest in studying social isolation and loneliness in directed research tutorials and my qualifying
exam project. Using data from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS), | exanimated the longitudinal association
between internet use and loneliness for older people. The manuscript prepared with this work is currently in
revision and resubmission. Because of my strong interests in statistical methodology, | sought training in
structural equation modeling (SEM) and longitudinal data modeling at the Inter-university Consortium for Political
and Social Research (ICPSR) summer training at the University of Michigan. Learning advanced statistical
methodology enabled me to model the relationships of key variables of interests in a sophisticated manner. |
further horned my data management and modeling skills in the process of conducting independent research with
the qualifying exam. The qualifying exam project examined the longitudinal bidirectional relationship between
the accumulation of geriatric conditions and loneliness. The study results were rich enough to be reported in two
separate manuscripts that will be submitted to top gerontology journals.

Socially isolated older adults are at high risk of cognitive decline and the onset of Alzheimer’s disease and
related dementias (ADRD). My past research experiences shaped the path for me to study the longitudinal
association between environmental factors, social isolation, and cognitive health. With the awareness that
cognitive health in later life is a new research field for me, | sought the highly individualized training opportunities
that could be made possible with the F99/K00 award. If awarded, this funding opportunity will enable me to

Applicant's Background and Goals for Fellowship Training Page 51


[Page 3]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
receive exceptional training and mentored research, transition my research directions and help me grow into an
independent investigator conducting social isolation and cognitive health research from an ecological perspective.
B. Training Goals and Objectives

My research is guided by the overarching goal of promoting long, healthy, and meaningful lives. My long-term
career development objective is to build substantial knowledge that leads to effective interventions from a social-
ecological/community engagement perspective to reduce social isolation and prevent cognitive decline. |
envision myself to be a leading scientist in a renowned research-oriented university and making impacts with my
research on social isolation and cognitive health. For the F99/K00 award tenure, | aspire to gain knowledge in
cognitive health and ADRD research, receive training in analyzing high-frequency digital biomarkers longitudinal
data and neuroimaging methodologies, and expand experience in intervention development, implementation,
and assessment. Working with my sponsors, | developed the following specific training goals and objectives and
descried how we plan to collaborate to achieve the training goals.

Training Goal 1: increase knowledge in prevention, intervention, and policy pertaining to cognitive
decline in normal aging and the development of ADRD. [ will work with my co-sponsors, Dr. Iris Chi, Dr.
Shinyi Wu, and Dr. Hiroko Dodge, to get immersed in cognitive health research. | will systematically learn the
protective and risk factors of cognitive decline, currently available treatment, and interventions for ADRD through
mentored research. | have already been actively engaged in the academic activities at the USC Edward R.
Roybal Institute on Aging and have been attending research meetings where frontier aging and ADRD related
research findings are presented. With the receipt of the F99/KOO, | will get involved with the Alzheimer's Disease
Research Center (ADRC) at USC and the Layton Aging and Alzheimer’s Disease Center at Oregon Health and
Science University (OADC). Dr. Wu will help me to get connected with researchers at USC ADRC. | will learn
new progress in ADRD research by getting engaged with USC ADRC and building collaborative relationships for
future research. Dr. Dodge will be the liaison for the resources at OADC, directing me to the personals and
research cores according to my learning needs. Dr. Dodge and Dr. Wu will provide directed reading to facilitate
my learning for substantial topics related to cognitive decline and ADRD. | will present and discuss the papers
with peers and mentors in our regular journal club hosted by Dr. Wu. Additionally, [ will join through Zoom the
monthly OADC investigator meeting held at OHSU where researchers present to critique their ongoing research
and proposals. [ plan to take a course at the USC School of Gerontology dedicated to discussing special issues
on cognitive decline and ADRD. This course covers cognitive decline for people with Alzheimer’s Disease or

The new knowledge in
cognitive health gained through the F99 phase will enable me to conduct informed cutting-edge research at the
KOO phase and beyond.

Training Goal 2: gain skills in analyzing high-frequency digital biomarkers longitudinal data and
employing neuroimaging methods. Through conducting research with the IMTOP study data, | had some
experience in utilizing biomarker measures, such as blood pressure and blood glucose, yet | have not
systematically learned about assessing and analyzing biomarker data in ADRD related research. Cognitive
health studies often require the use of bio-marker indicators to objectively evaluate the intervention effect or
longitudinal changes in brain functioning. Neuroimaging methodology is widely used in ADRD related research,
which allows the researchers to link the variation observed in behavioral testing of cognition with activities in the
brain. Learning to assess biomarkers as key variables in my research and using neuroimaging methods will
enable me to have in-depth discussions with a broader scientific audience, including but not limited to
researchers in fields of Social Work, Neurology, Gerontology, and Engineering. Using biomarker and
neuroimaging methodology will also equip me to build knowledge on detecting early-stage brain changes related
to cognitive decline, which can produce scientific evidence that informs social work intervention and practice with
the socially isolated older adults. | plan to receive training conduct hands-on research in Neuroimaging methods
in the KOO stage, at the OADC Neuroimaging core. The OADC is also specialized in collecting digital bio-marker
data. Digital biomarkers are collected using wearable devices in a nonintrusive manner, such as walking speed
assessed using in-home sensors. Enhancing my capacity of understanding and using digital biomarker data will
expand the spectrum of outcomes | can investigate, including those indicators that are essential for ADRD
research.

[ will horn my longitudinal data analysis skills in the process of analyzing four waves of longitudinal data from
the NHATS study, which prepares me to analyze high-frequency digital biomarker longitudinal data in the KOO
phase. I will complete a self-directed course on using R programming to handle large longitudinal datasets and
run sophisticated models that is suitable for answering my research questions, such as multi-level modeling,
structural equation modeling, and Bayesian inference models.

Applicant's Background and Goals for Fellowship Training Page 52

