SECTION: RESEARCH STRATEGY
============================================================


[Page 5]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
Research Strategy
1. Significance
1.1. Environment and Social Isolation

Social isolation is the absence of contact with other individuals and a lack of relationships and social
integration.** Empirical evidence repeatedly showed that social isolation is associated with death by
cardiovascular disease and early morbidity among older adults.7* A meta-analysis with 70 studies published
between 1980 and 2014 showed that socially isolated individuals had a 29% increased likelihood of mortality.’
The research and practice fields have increasingly recognize the significance of addressing the problem of social
isolation. AARP estimated that about 4 million older adults enrolled in Medicare are socially isolated, and
Medicare spends an additional $6.7 billion on isolated individuals than otherwise if they are socially connected.
Eradicate the problem of social isolation requires a social approach. However, while the current literature has
explored the individual-level risk and protective factors of social isolation, such as personality and health
concerns, how does the physical and social characteristics of the living environment affects the experience of
social isolation has not been well researched.

The Ecological Theory of Aging (ETA) posits environmental factors have significant influences on
health and social wellbeing.””*>* Living environment provides access to resources, and the settings for social
interaction as well as an essential source of cognitive simulation.“ Living environments are often assessed
through diverse dimensions including physical and social aspects of environments.”*"° Physical environments
refer to the objective aspects of the neighborhood and the facilities, for example, the safety of the neighborhood,
access to amenities, green open spaces and aesthetics.*” While social environment often been operationalized
as the social participation and social integration perceived by people, such as participate in social activities,
sense of community, and trust in people. *°

For the association between physical environmental factors and social isolation, previous research
reported that older residents of a high-crime neighborhood are more likely to be socially isolated despite their
strong desire for social integration.®°° The community disorders, which can present itself as litters on the streets,
deserted buildings, and vandalism, could lead to the perception of lack of safety, thus causes increased likelihood
of social isolation. Outdoor space & public buildings, and common areas have a critical role in keeping the
residents living an active social life and contribute to their general wellbeing.*” Although existing literature shed
light on the role of the physical environment on social isolation, the evidence is built mainly on cross-sectional
data, the longitudinal association between the two warrants further research. The proposed dissertation work
aspires to build evidence with longitudinal data, and the following hypothesis was derived based on cross-
sectional results and theoretical reasoning of ETA.

H1: Negative physical characteristics of the environment, i.e., disorders in the community and at home, predicts
the increased social isolation in the community.

Social environmental factors like community support & health services, communication & information, civic
participation, & employment have been empirically supported as protective factors of social isolation.“°*' Sense
of belongingness, togetherness, and trust were found to be associated with a less sedentary lifestyle and more
social participation and interpersonal interaction, and thus, predicts a lower extent of social isolation.”
Residential satisfaction and sense of belonging was found negatively associated with perceived social isolation.”
H2: Positive social environment factors (e.g., trust neighbors, people in the community, helping each other) are
associated with less social isolation longitudinally.

One's perception of the social environment is likely to be influenced by the physical characteristics
of the environment. Sampson and Raudenbush (2004) reported that physical deterioration and disorder has a
social meaning beyond just the observation of neighborhood disorder.** Physical characteristics of a living
environment could change an individual's opinions of the social environments, resulting in less perceived
opportunities in the neighborhood. For example, visible vandalism on the street could prevent residents from
walking on the streets, which could increase the incidence of social isolation.”

H3: Social environmental factors mediate the longitudinal association between physical environmental factors
and social isolation.

Why is it that the social and physical aspects of the living environment affect the social wellbeing of
its older residents? This question remained unanswered with previous research. ETA provided three
propositional processes for the environment to “get under the skin’, i.e., autonomy defined as the older adult
take action to change the environment to fit their needs, belonging defined as a sense of security, inclusion and
connectedness, and stress defined as the “environmental press” to which made the individual suffer.””*° Yet the
corresponding measures are not available in nationally representative longitudinal studies. A qualitative
exploratory approach will be employed in this proposed dissertation work to elicit older adults’ own experiences

Research Strategy Page 57


[Page 6]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
on the impact of the living environment for the experience of social isolation. ETA will be used to guide the design
of the interview guide. No hypothesis was derived for the qualitative inquiry with exploratory nature.
uen F99 phase Kc KOO phase TS
a a wS aN
vy Social environements Y “\ \
° c 3 ‘
/ 4 2. help each other - ixed-methods: Developing a \
/ 3. trust-worthiness bs gustainble community-based \
H i Health 4 frogram for social Isolation \
f » A | and cognitive health \
1 q _1, social \ i J
\ 2. instrumental 1 ii I
\ 3. medical \ , ; — /
. nlernet-base'
\ {community disorder en Se \ p> I 4 ogegement /
Ny 2. in-home disorder \ , (I-CONECT) /
~~ N 7 7
SL ae ae oe
ts eee wee
Figure 1. Conceptual framework of the F99 and KOO phases of research
1.2. Environment, Social Isolation, and Cognitive Health

Physical and social environments not only affect the social wellbeing of older people but also fundamentally
influences their cognitive health. Environments serve as one of the most pervasive and complex stimuli to the
brain and contribute to shaping cognitive functionality through the mechanism of neuroplasticity.“ Environmental
challenges, as simple as daily tasks like shopping, was hypothesized to simulate the brain because it requires
an older person to remember the route and shopping list despite the distractors in the environments.
Environmental stimuli, just like education and cognitively-demanding jobs, were theorized to be associated with
increased cognitive reserve and prevent cognitive decline.“ Considerable amount of research/practice interests
and effects have been paid to building aging-friendly communities,“°*” however, little is known about the cognitive
effects of the physical and social environments.” Carefully investigating specific aspects of visual
simulation in the living environment, such as disorder at home and in the community, is granted.

Community disorder, such as cluttered and unsafe environment, increase the cognitive burden and the
environmental stressors on the residents. Older adults living in communities with a higher number of adverse
physical environmental characteristics are more likely to be deprived of health care resources and cognitively
stimulating activities.** Positive social environments provide the resources and opportunities that are necessary
for cognitive simulating engagements.***° Social environments were found to be significantly associated with
cognitive functioning with cross-sectional data.*® Although the theoretical reasons supporting the
association between specific physical and social environments and cognitive decline is substantial,
empirical examinations of the relationships are scarce.**°° The proposed research project aspires to
contribute to the knowledge by building empirical evidence on physical environmental factors and cognitive
health using longitudinal data. The following hypotheses were derived.

H4: Negative physical environments, i.e., the disorder in community and homes, were longitudinally positively
associated with deterioration in cognitive function.

H5: Positive social environment, i.e., neighborhood cohesion, longitudinally associated with deterioration in
cognitive function.

Social isolation could mediate the association between physical and social environments and
cognitive functioning. The literature review in the previous section established the reasoning for the
associations between physical and social environments and social isolation. Social isolation was found to predict
cognitive decline longitudinally.” Perceived social isolation was associated with a higher cortical Amyloid burden
in older adults, supporting the crucial role of social isolation in preclinical Alzheimer’s disease and related
dementia.”

H6: Social isolation mediates the longitudinal association between physical and social environments and
cognitive function.

Although ETA highlights the importance of the environment in the aging process in general, the theory did not
specifically discuss the effect of environments on cognitive health.”““ The knowledge that will be built in the
proposed study could enrich the content and expanding the scope of ETA.

Research Strategy Page 58


[Page 7]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
1.3. ICT, Social Isolation and Cognitive Health

ICT use has been found associated with reduced social isolation.°’** A systematic review reported that ICT
alleviates the elderly's social isolation through four mechanisms: connecting to the outside world, gaining social
support, engaging in activities of interests, and boosting self-confidence.” The ETA hypothesized ICT use
promotes the wellbeing of older adults through enhancing their agency.*° However, the effect of ICT
interventions on social isolation were not able to last for more than 6 month after termination.°” Previous research
noted that the ICT intervention might not work for everyone in the diverse population of older adults with
heterogonous personal characteristics and life experiences.” Future research are needed to identify how to
implement and contextualize ICT interventions in the older adult’s daily life so that the population would be more
likely to benefit from the ICT use.” Additionally, the nature and content of ICT use might result in different effects.
Internet use for social purposes was reported to be associated with decreased perceived social isolation in the
following year, while the association between social isolation with instrumental use of internet was insignificant.”
Contextualizing the effect of ICT use within the ecological living environment of older adults could
contribute to the literature on what kind of ICT is effective in alleviating social isolation under what
circumstances.

The impact of ICT use within the context of the living environment will be explored for the first time in the
proposed dissertation work and postdoctoral research. ICT adoption has the potential to reduce the negative
influence of disadvantaged physical and social environments by providing a new avenue for older adults who
suffer health issues to interact with family, peers, and society.2”° ICT users reported that internet made it easier
to reach people and increased the quantity of communication with others, thus supporting them in feeling less
isolated.°' ICT corresponds to the information & communication aspect of the community environment, we
hypothesize the effect of physical and social environment on social isolation is different for [CT users and non-
ICT users. In the F99 phase, I will investigate the interacted influence of physical and social environments and
using ICT for different purposes (social, instrumental, and medical) on social isolation.

H7: ICT use will moderate the longitudinal association between physical and social environments and social
isolation experienced by older adults. More specifically, individuals who use ICT for social purposes are less
likely to be socially isolated.

The effect of ICT use on cognitive health has not been extensively researched and well-understood.
Besides, ICT is an umbrella term summarizing a variety of technological tools that could facilitate interpersonal
interaction. -CONECT intervention employs a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) study design to investigate
the effect of a specific type of ICT use, i.e., Internet-facilitated conversational engagement via video-chat, on
cognitive functioning among older adults who are cognitively intact or with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). The
task of conversation is highly cognitively simulating, which requires control of attention, working memory,
executive functions, and mental interpretation of other’s emotions and intentions.°4°° Linguistic ability is known
as highly related to cognitive health among older adults.°° In the KOO Phase, I will utilize data collected in the I-
CONECT project to examine the longitudinal intervention effect of ICT facilitated conversation on the social
wellbeing and cognitive health of older adults.

The current I-CONECT intervention did not explicitly take into consideration the impact of physical and social
environments. With the evidence will be built in the longitudinal secondary data analysis and qualitative focus
groups of in the dissertation, | will explore the possibility of designing a sustainable community-based program
to offer a technology-facilitated solution to alleviate social isolation and prevent cognitive decline.*” Studying the
effectiveness of technology in the living environment and explore new approaches of technology-facilitated care
could transform the older adults’ home to become more than a living space, but also a service platform.*®

Figure 1 illustrates the conceptual framework for both F99 and KOO phases. Examining the physical and social
environmental impacts on social isolation and cognitive health among older adults, this the proposed research
has the potential to produce a sustainable solution to the challenge of social isolation among older adults and
the increased likelihood of cognitive decline and ADRD onset accompanies with it. By contextualizing the role of
technology in older adults’ living environments, knowledge will be built in the proposed research will address the
challenges of independent living and aging in place with technology tools that fit the circumstances. Although
the distinction between physical and social environments was proposed by the ETA, empirical evidence has
examined the subjective aspect of the living environment (i.e., social environment) less adequately. 22 The
proposed work will contribute to the literature and expand the scope of ETA by studying both the physical and
social environments and their relationships with social isolation and cognitive health.

2. Approach
2.1. F99- predoctoral stage
2.1.1. Quantitative inquiry using NHATS data
Research Strategy Page 59


[Page 8]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin

2.1.1a. Dataset

The proposed dissertation will use data from NHATS wave 5 (collected in 2015) to 8 (collected in 2018).
NHATS is a longitudinal study that annually surveys Medicare beneficiaries aged 65 and above in the contiguous
United States (excluding Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico). Medicare beneficiaries constitute more than 98% of
the US population age 65 and older. NHATS used a stratified three-stage Table 1. wave 5 NHATS sample characteristics
sample design: 95 individual counties or groups of counties were selected as = _Demosraphicvariables nn %
primary sampling units (PSUs), and 655 zip codes were sampled from them as — Seezrours 9847 34.16
secondary sampling units (SSUs). Individuals were sampled from the Medicare 75-84 3124 37.48
enrollment data bases (EDBs) of the SSUs with oversampling of non-Hispanic 85+ 2067 24.8
black individuals and the oldest old. The probabilities of sampling at all three Genderfemale 4927 59.12
stages aimed to create equal probability samples and achieve the goals of Non-Hispanic White © 5703 58.43
sample sizes by age group and race/ethnicity. The waves 5 to 8 were selected Non-Hispanic Black 1740. 20.52
because the measures of the physical environment were included since wave Others 244 2.98
4, and the NHATS sample was replenished in the 5" wave (2015). Starting the spans 467 56
analysis from wave 5 prevents the problem of having a high percentage of least isolation 3095 37.96
missing in the baseline of longitudinal analysis. In total, there were 8,334 somewhat isolated 4084 50.08
complete cases in wave 5 data collection.®° The overall response rate at wave Socially isolated 976 11.97
was 76%, which consist of 96% of the continuing sample and 63% of the newly = ztiton 5825 70.63
enrolled sample.®° Table 1 presents the baseline (wave 5) NHATS sample Possible dementia 779 9.45
composition by race/ethnicity and age groups. Probablydementia 963 11.68

2.1.1a. Measurements .

Physical environments were reported by the interviewers who visited the respondents at their home.
Standing in front of the respondent’s home/building and looking around, the interviewer rated on a four-
point scale (1=none, 4=a lot) regarding 1) the amount of litter on the street, 2) graffiti on buildings and walls, 3)
vacant or deserted houses or stores. The physical condition of the respondent home was rated dichotomously
(yes/no), in terms of, 1) any broken windows, 2) a crumbling foundation or open holes, 3) missing bricks or siding,
4) roof problems, 5) uneven walking surface or broken steps, 6) continuous sidewalks in both directions (reverse
coded). The physical condition inside the responder’s home/apartment was assessed by observing the
existence of 1) peeling paint, 2) evidence of pests, 3) broken furniture, 4) flooring need of repair, 5) tripping
hazards, and 6) cluttered room. The scale score of the physical conditions of the community, home/building, and
inside home/apartmenits will be derived from the sum score of the corresponding items. The use of interviewers’
observation could provide more accurate information regarding the physical environment of each participant than
using the census data by zip code, which tends to reduce the complexity of the real-life condition.

Social environments. Respondents reported whether the people in the community know each other very
well, willing to help each other, and people in the community can be trusted on a three-point scale (1=agree a
lot, 2=agree a little, 3=do not agree). A sum score of the three items will be used as the scale score for the social
environment.

ICT use. NHATS assessed three types of ICT use: instrumental internet use, social internet use, and internet
use for medical purposes. Instrumental internet was measured by asking the respondent’s weather they shop
online and pay bills or banking with the internet. Social use was measured with one item asking in the last month
if the respondent went online to visit social network sites (such as Facebook or Linkedin). Use the internet for
medical purposes had four items: order or refill prescriptions, contact medical providers, handle health insurance
matters, and get information about one's health conditions. The three aspects of ICT use will be used as
moderators that are independent of each other.

Social isolation was constructed with six dichotomously coded indicators: no marriage or partnership, no
family identified to talk with about important things, no friend identified to talk with about important things, never
meeting in person with family or friends in the past month, no participation in religious service, and no club, class
or organization activities participation.** All items of social isolation will be coded as a higher indicates a more
isolated situation. The scale score is the sum of six dichotomous indicators, ranging from 0-6. Scores less than
1 represent individuals who were least isolation; scale score 2-3 represent who was somewhat isolated, and
scores equal or above 4 indicates social isolation.

Cognitive Health. For sampled persons self-responded cases, NHATS study assessed 1) memory: using
immediate and delayed words recall; 2) orientation: date, month, year and day of the week, naming the
President and Vice President of the United States; and 3) executive function measured by clock drawing test.”
If the interview were conducted with a proxy, AD-8 Dementia Screening Interview was used to assess memory,
temporal orientation, judgment, and function.©*?

Research Strategy Page 60


[Page 9]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin

Control variables. Demographics including age, gender, race, education level, marital status, income, and
self-rated health have been reported in existing literature as predictors for social isolation among older adults
1320.64 Therefore, the current study includes the variables listed above as control variables.

2.1.1b. Quantitative data analysis strategies

Data management and variable re-coding will be conducted using Stata 15 SE. Prior to model building,
univariate analysis and correlation of key variables will be run to estimate the effect size and detect any potential
multicollinearity issues. Latent growth curve modeling (LGCM) will be employed to model the longitudinal
relationships between physical environments, social environments, social isolation, and cognitive health. LGCM
allows nested models at hierarchical levels, such as observations of the same individual are nested within the
person, individuals live in the same neighborhood would have similar physical environments with regard to
disorder at the community level. As a special case of structural equation modeling (SEM), LGCM is well suited
for modeling mediation paths (H3, H6). Besides, the LGCM is capable of testing the moderating effects of ICT
use (H7).° Root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA), comparative fit index (CFI), and Tucker-Lewis
index (TLI) were used to evaluate the extent to which each model fits the data. RASWEA<0.05, CFI, and TFI >
0.90 would be considered as an acceptable model fit; CFI and TFI greater than 0.95 indicate good model fit.©°
LGCM models will be run with Mplus 8. Full Information Maximum Likelihood (FIML) estimation was used to
handle missing data in models. FIML is a single step maximum likelihood approach that is widely used in
structural equation modeling.°”®* Sampling weight will be applied to the models to match the representativeness
of the racial/ethnic groups as designed in the sampling strategies.
2.1.2. Qualitative inquiry with I-CONECT participants

2.1.2a. Data collection and procedure

Focus group participants will be recruited purposefully among the current [-CONECT participants. Based on
the strategy of maximum variation,® individuals with diverse living environment conditions will be selected to
participate in the focus group discussion. Focus group members will be selected from both study sites of I-
CONECT (OHSU & UM). Two focus groups will be held at each site: one with intervention group participants,
the other with control group participants. It is targeted for each focus group to have 8 participants (total N=32).
To avoid contamination of the intervention effect, only participants who have completed the I-CONCET study will
be invited to join the focus group study. Given the study timeline of the I-CONECT, the qualitative inquiry will
extend from F99 phase to KOO phase. The interview guide will be developed informed by concepts in ETA and
in consultation with experts with qualitative/mixed-methods research specialties (Palinkas) and with the best
knowledge of I-CONECT participants (Dodge). The PD/PI (Yu) will facilitate the focus group discussion at both
OHSU and UM.

2.1.2b. Qualitative data analysis

Conversations in focus group sessions will be audio-recorded and then transcribe verbatim for analysis. The
transcripts will be analyzed using inductive content analysis method by at least two trained independent coders.”
The coders are going to collaborate with qualitative analysis software Nvivo 12. The qualitative data coding team
will meet regularly to discuss the coding framework, procedure, and to reconcile different opinions and
interpretations of the quotations in the transcripts. The team will employ Cohen’s kappa coefficient as the
indicator for inter-rater reliability.”" Themes identified in the coding process will be reorganized and made sense
of according to the personal and living environmental characteristics of the participants.
2.1.3. Integration of quantitative and qualitative data

The qualitative and quantitative inquires of the dissertation work will occur concurrently. The main purpose of
adopting the mixed-methods is using qualitative data to explain why there might be effects of physical and social
environments on social isolation. The qualitative focus groups expanded the discussions on the findings
identified in the quantitative analysis.” Meanwhile, participant's insights on designing a sustainable
environmental-focused technology program to address social isolation and promote cognitive health will be
elicited. The findings of both qualitative and quantitative components of the dissertation work together as
foundations for developing an intervention program that can be pilot tested in the postdoctoral training phase
and beyond.
2.2. K00- postdoctoral stage
2.2.1. I-CONECT

2.2.1a. Study design

I-CONECT study is being conducted in collaboration by Oregon Health and Science University (OHSU) and
the University of Michigan (UM) (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02871921). One hundred sixty socially isolated
adults aged 75 plus will be recruited at each site (OHSU & UM) and randomized into either the video-chat
intervention group and the control group. As of October 2019, 105 subjects are already participating in the trial.

Research Strategy Page 61


[Page 10]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin

The inclusion criteria are aged 75 or older, consent to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) if eligible, socially
isolated, adequate vision and hearing, understand English, and normal cognition or MCI (based on consensus
diagnosis). The intervention group participants received computers and internet service during the intervention,
which ensures the participants can video chat with study staff for 30 minutes/day, 4 times/week for 6 months
(high does), and 2 times/week for an additional 6 months (maintenance dose). Study staff briefly check-in by
phone call (approximately 10 minutes) with both intervention and control group participants once per week. [n-
home neuropsychological assessments will be administered at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months. All
participants would have MRI scans at baseline and 6 months if MRI were safe for them. All video chat and in-
home assessment sessions are being recorded for language analysis. Participants at OHSU will have their
medication compliance tracked using electronic pillboxes. The estimated primary completion date for -CONECT
study is Oct 2022. The expected study completion date, including the data analysis phase, is Oct 2023.

2.2.1b. Measurements

Cognitive functioning. The primary intervention outcomes are executive and memory functioning assessed
with cognitive tests using National Alzheimer’s Coordinating Center Uniform Data Set neuropsychological battery
(UDS V3: https://www.alz.washington.edu/WEB/dataforms_main.html), cross-validated by NIH Toolbox.”
Region-specific structural and functional pre-post changes in the brain are evaluated with magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI). Speech and language characteristics are captured during each video chats as well as in-home
assessments. Medical adherence measured with electronic pillboxes. Compared to traditional self-reported
medical adherence, the digital biomarker collected with electronic pillboxes can eliminate the social desirability
bias and record the exact time when the participants opened the pillboxes.” Social Isolation was defined as: i.
Score <12 on the 6-item Lubben Social Network Scale (LSNS-6);” or ii. Engages in conversations lasting 30
minutes or longer no more than twice per week, per subject self-report.

2.2.1c. Intervention effects evaluation plan

Among the outcomes measured in I-CONECT, my interests focus on cognitive health and social isolation. |
will collaborate with IL CONECT team to examine the intervention effects. The high dose (baseline to 6 months)
and the maintenance dose (6 months to 12 months) will be exanimated separately. Data will be analyzed to
evaluate the differences in cognitive function change and extent of social isolation from baseline to 6 months
between the intervention and the control groups. Similar analyses will be conducted for the change between 6
months to 12 months. Finally, the combined intervention effects of the high dose and the maintenance dose
intervention on cognition and social isolation will be evaluated.

2.2.2. Co-design a technology-facilitated community-based intervention with older adult participants

Despite the empirically supported benefits of ICT for older adults' wellbeing, the majority of the currently
available technology tools, such as social media sites, mobile health apps, are not designed with older adults’
unique needs in mind. Older people often are not included as part of the intervention/technological tool
development team. It was not until recent years the researchers in the health service and related fields start to
employ a co-design approach to try to develop programs from the perspective of the populations it aims to
serve.’*-? On the other hand, anxiety and resistance remains among the older adult population when it comes
to learn, trust and safely adopt new technologies.” *" | aspire to co-design a technology-facilitated community
intervention to reduce social isolation and to prevent cognitive decline at the KOO research phase, which can
lead to future research agenda on pilot testing the potential effects and feasibility of the intervention program
after | become a tenure-track faculty.

Previous research summarized six steps in developing a quality intervention, which are 1) defining and
analyzing the problem; 2) identifying modifiable factors; 3) deciding on the intervention mechanism; 4) clarify the
intervention delivery process; 5) testing and revising the intervention; 6) a more rigorous effectiveness
evaluation.** The proposed dissertation work will address steps 1 to 4 in intervention development. More
specifically, the longitudinal quantitative analysis will analyze the problem of social isolation and cognitive decline,
identifying physical and social environmental factors as modifiable points and potential intervention mechanisms.
The focus groups with I-CONECT participants will help to collect preliminary information on the participant's
opinion towards the intervention design and clarify the intervention delivery process that fits the needs of the
older adults.

In the K00 phase, | plan to synthesize the evidence build with I-CONECT intervention and conduct
more qualitative co-design sessions with isolated older adults who are at risk of cognitive decline.
Collaborating with I-CONECT team, my research activities at the postdoctoral stage will further clarify the
intervention mechanism and intervention delivery process. Experts panels will be formulated to consult the
development of the intervention, which includes the sponsors of the current proposal and other researchers and
experts | will meet with in the future.

Research Strategy Page 62


[Page 11]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
Sponsor and Co-Sponsor Statements
A. Research Support Available
Chi
|
———" |
Wu
SS
Dodge
Phase II (Dodge, PI), 09/01/16 — 05/31/21
MCI: Phase | (Dodge, PI), 07/01/17 — 03/31/22
ORCATECH Collaborative Aging (in Place) Research Using Technology (CART)
(Kaye, PI), 09/01/16 - 08/31/20
pPains
Behavior (Brown, PI), 9/1/16 —6/30/21
01A1 Children, Youth and Families (Hoagwood, PI), 9/21/19 — 4/30/23
NICHD RO1 HD092489- Dissemination and implementation of the Safe Environment for Every Kid
01A1 (SEEK) Model for Preventing Child Maltreatment. (Dubowitz, PI), 4/1/19 —
8/31/23
B. Sponsor’s/co-sponsor’s Previous Fellows/Trainees
Chi — has mentored 32 doctoral students and postdoc fellows in total
Xinming Song 1991-1995 Professor, Peking University
Vivian Lou 1993-1999 Associate Professor, University of Hong Kong
Angela Leung 2000-2007 Associate Professor, Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Man Guo 2005-2011 Associate Professor, University of lowa
Ling Xu 2007-2012 Assistant Professor, University of Texas, Arlington
Wu — has mentored 15 doctoral students and postdoc fellows in total
Irene Vidyanti 2009-2014 Data Scientist, Los Angeles County Chief Information Office
Magaly Ramirez 2011-2016 Assistant Professor, University of Washington
Haomiao Jin 2012-2016 Research Assistant Professor, University of Southern California
Dodge — has mentored 17 doctoral students and postdoc fellows in total
Adriana Seeley 2014-2017 Assistant Professor, Minnesota VA hospital
Meysam Asgari 2014-2016 Assistant Professor, Oregon Health and Science University
Junko Nishihira 2014-2016 Assistant Professor, Ryukyu University
Jiayu Zhou 2016-2018 Assistant Professor, Michigan State University
Ming Li 2017-2018 Researcher, Alibaba Seattle
Sponsor and Co-Sponsor Statements Page 66


[Page 12]
Contact PD/PI: Yu, Kexin
Palinkas — has mentored 70 doctoral students and postdoc fellows in total
Maxwell Davis 2007-2008 Director of the CALSWEC Mental Health Program,
University of California, Berkeley
lan Holloway 2010-2012 Associate Professor, University of California, Los Angeles
Kim Brimhall 2016-2017 Assistant Professor, Binghamton University
C. Training Plan, Environment, Research Facilities

Ms. Yu proposes to examine the longitudinal influence of physical and social living environments on social
isolation and cognitive health among older adults with National Health & Aging Trends (NHATS) data. The
proposed dissertation will be the known first to contextualize the role of ICT use through examining the interaction
effects of the physical environment with ICT use and the social environment with ICT use on social isolation and
cognitive decline. An ecological perspective has rarely been adopted to studying the intertwined relationships
between social well-being and cognitive health. With the population aging rate continues to increase, Ms. Yu’s
research will enhance the research field’s understanding of the ecological support system on mental health and
cognition in the rapidly changing society. Ms. Yu proposes to develop and pilot testing a community-based
intervention that has the potential to provide a sustainable solution to keep the older adults socially connected
and prevent the onset of dementia. Her work will be meaningful to address the challenge of social isolation and
the burden of care brought by the increasingly prevalent ADRD conditions. Ms. Yu’s training plan incorporates
both coursework, seminars, and mentorship opportunities provided by sponsors with diverse and complementary
skillsets. The proposed research and training agenda works together to advance Ms. Yu’s research skills and
scholarship.

With the receipt of this award, Ms. Yu will have the opportunity to receive training from an outstanding
mentoring team made up of leaders in the fields of Neurology, Engineering, Anthropology, and Social Work.
Each of the sponsors has influential research works committed to improving the quality of lives for the older adult
population. The sponsor team members will collaborate to aid Ms. Yu to achieve her long term career goal of
becoming an independent social scientist and an impactful intervention researcher that dedicated to improve
social well-being and prevent cognitive decline. Ms. Yu will work with Dr. Wu to further gain expertise in using
technology-facilitated tools to improve health outcomes and increase access to health care for the populations
in need. She will work with Dr. Dodge to increase her understanding of cognitive health and dementia research,
to grow her capacity of neuroimaging methodology and using digital biomarkers in her research. Ms. Yu will work
with Dr. Palinkas to refine her skills in mixed-methods research and receive consultation on designing and
implementing community-based health interventions. Ms. Yu will apply the skills developed from the
individualized training plan to write her dissertation, seek to publish in high-impact journals, and develop a
research agenda beyond the postdoctoral training stage than leads to her career success.

| serve as the primary sponsor of Ms. Yu’s F99/KO0 application. | will be the coordinator for communication
among the co-sponsors. Depending on my 30 years of experience in conducting research on health and mental
health outcomes with the older adult population, | will provide content and professional development expertise
on: (a) interpretation of the longitudinal analysis and qualitative results; (b) integration of qualitative and
quantitative findings; (c) developing and/or adapting social isolation and cognitive health intervention in
collaboration with the target age group and community-based organizations; and (d) scientific writing and
navigating the peer-review process. Working with the sponsoring team, Ms. Yu has identified the following
training goals and listed specific plans that lead to achieving these goals.

Training Goal 1: Ms. Yu will increase knowledge in prevention, intervention, and current practice and
policy pertain cognitive decline in normal aging and the development of ADRD. Dr. Wu is currently
conducting research with older adults with ADRD and their family caregivers. She will connect Ms. Yu with
researchers with similar interests at the USC Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center (ADRC). Ms. Yu will work
with Dr. Wu and myself to develop a literature review database on cognitive health and ADRD research. Dr. Wu
leads a health system journal club with graduate students under her supervision. At the bi-weekly journal club,
Ms. Yu will have opportunities to present her learned ADRD related knowledge. She will have interactive
discussions and receive feedback from peers and Dr. Wu and myself. The journal club and involvement at the
USC ADRC will formulate an intellectual community and academic support system that will benefit Ms. Yu’s
professional development and assist her in achieving the training goal 1.

Dr. Dodge is an expert in pharmacological and non-pharmacological intervention strategies are urgently
needed to delay the onset of dementia and reduce its societal burden. She has contributed to the knowledge of
distinguishing the normal cognitive aging and pathological cognitive decline. Dr. Dodge is the Principal
Investigator of Internet-based Conversational Engagement Clinical Trial (I-CONECT, NIA RO1AG056102,

Sponsor and Co-Sponsor Statements Page 67


[Page 13]
~. Ph.D. Program
Suzanne sch! tbs ons
Associate Professor
Director of Doctoral Programs and Chair of the PhD Program
Or. — eC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work
Schoo lof Social Work University of Southern California (USC)
October 2019
Hi 4 4
From: Michael Hurlburt, Ph.D. co
Associate Professor ees
Director of Doctoral Programs and Chair of the Ph.D. Program
Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work
University of Southern California (USC)
RE: Kexin Yu, PhD Candidate-at the University of Southern California, Suzanne _Dworak-
Peck School of Social Work . ;
Description of Institutional Environment & Commitment to Training
Dear Sir/Madame,

Social Work Ph.D. Program. The USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work (USCSSW) established
the first social work doctoral Program in the western United States in 1953. Today we continue the tradition of
admitting highly motivated, self-directed individuals interested in university research and teaching. Students
Pursue an in-depth, Customized course of study in an atmosphere of careful mentoring and respect for
scholarship. Our doctoral curriculum is highly interdisciplinary with the intent of Producing graduates who are
Capable of original research and passionate about advancing the profession’s knowledge base. Our program
fosters early engagement in research and Publication, together with a structured and Sequential experience in
classroom teaching. Unique developmental opportunities are offered to improve students’ presentation skills,
networking with other universities, and leadership potential, Our goal is to make students competitive for the
best available Positions in this country and elsewhere in this world,

Program Structure. Doctoral students at USCSSW are required to complete a minimum of 45 course units
beyond the master's degree (exclusive of the Doctoral Dissertation). During the first year of the PhD Program,
Students complete 8 Courses (16 units) in social work policy practice and research and Participate in faculty-
directed research Projects. Core Substantive Courses include: Theories of Human Behavior in the Context of
Social Environments; Explanatory Theories for Larger Social Systems; Theories for Practice with Small and Large
Systems. Core Research/Statistics Courses include: Introduction to Social Work Statistics; Multiple Regression
in Social Work Research; Advanced Social Work Research Methods. During the second year of the PhD Program,
Students are required to enroll in advanced multivariate statistics and at least three courses (per semester) in
other departments or schools within the university. At least eight of these 12 units must be in courses with a
substantive rather than a research methodology or statistics focus. Additional second year requirements include
three student-directed tutorials (2-unit) under the mentorship of a social work faculty member. Tutorials provide

greater understanding of the student's chosen specialty through a closer examination of relevant practice
theories, explanatory theories, and research methodologies. Each tutorial is designed to Produce a study of
publishable quality. In the third year of the PhD Program, students must pass a qualifying examination in their
research area, which consists of a written Paper of publishable quality and includes an Oral defense. After Passing
the qualifying exam, students are advanced to candidacy. Year Four and Beyond- Dissertation: Before
proceeding with the dissertation, students must establish a dissertation committee approved by the Graduate
School and submit a dissertation Proposal for approval. Students submit their completed dissertation to their
dissertation committee and orally defend it.
University of Southern California
oS eee—EeeEeEeE
Page 77
CP

