PlasmoDB Release 68 7 May 2024 My Strategies Searches Tools My Workspace Data About Help Subscriptions Contact Us Guest Login Register My Organism Preferences (63 of 63) enabled Access Data from MaHPIC - The Malaria Host-Pathogen Interaction Center An Introduction to MaHPIC MaHPIC was established with funding from the NIAID (# HHSN272201200031C, September 2012 to September 2017) to characterize host-pathogen interactions during malaria infections of non-human primates (NHP) and clinical studies via collaborations with investigators in malaria endemic countries. MaHPIC's 8 teams of transdisciplinary scientists use a "systems biology" approach to study the molecular details of how malaria parasites interact with their human and NHP hosts to cause disease. Read More... MaHPIC data and metadata from NHP experiments and clinical collaborations involving human subjects from malaria endemic countries include a wide range of data types and are carefully validated before release to the public. In total, MaHPIC results data sets will be composed of thousands of files and several data types. Results datasets will offer unprecedented detail on disease progression, recrudescence, relapse, and host susceptibility and will be instrumental in the development of new diagnostics, drugs, and vaccines to reduce the global suffering caused by this disease. The MaHPIC team uses a "systems biology" strategy to study how malaria parasites interact with their human and NHP hosts to cause disease in molecular detail. The central hypothesis is that "Non-Human Primate host interactions with Plasmodium pathogens as model systems will provide insights into mechanisms, as well as indicators for, human malarial disease conditions". The MaHPIC effort includes many teams working together to produce and analyze data and metadata. These teams are briefly described below but more detailed information can be found at Emory's MaHPIC site . MaHPIC Team Description Clinical Malaria - designs and implements experimental plans involving infection of non-human primates Functional Genomics - develops gene expression profiles from blood and bone marrow Proteomics - develops detailed proteomics profiles from blood and bone marrow Lipidomics - investigates lipids and biochemical responses associated with lipids from blood and bone marrow Immune Profiling - profiles white blood cells in the peripheral blood and progenitors in the bone marrow Metabolomics - provides detailed metabolomics data for plasma and associated cellular fractions Bioinformatics - standardizes, warehouses, maps and integrates the data generated by the experimental cores Computational Modeling - integrates the data sets generated by the experimental cores into static and dynamic models MaHPIC Experimental Design For the study of malaria in the context of the MaHPIC project, "systems biology" means collecting and analyzing comprehensive data on how a Plasmodium parasite infection produces changes in host and parasite gene expression, proteins, lipids, metabolism and the host immune response. MaHPIC experiments include longitudinal studies of Plasmodium infections (or uninfected controls) in non-human primates, and clinical and metabolomics studies of human samples. Read More... View Larger Image The MaHPIC strategy is to collect physical specimens from non-human primates (NHPs) over the course of an experiment. The clinical parameters of infected animals and uninfected controls are monitored daily for about 100 days. During the experiment, NHPs receive antimalarial treatments to mimic relapse or recrudescence depending on the infecting species. Animals receive a curative treatment at the end of the experiment. At specific milestones during disease progression, blood and bone marrow samples are collected and analyzed by the MaHPIC teams and a diverse set of data and metadata are produced. Access MaHPIC Data Here All results are a product of the MaHPIC. For more information on the MaHPIC, please visit http://www.systemsbiology.emory.edu/ . MaHPIC Genomes Data Links Organism Repository Integrated into PlasmoDB Publication Plasmodium coatneyi strain Hackeri GenBank 2 Feb 2017 PMID:27587810 Plasmodium knowlesi strain Malayan Strain Pk1 A GenBank 1 Dec 2017 PMID:28720171 Experiment HuA: Metabolomics of plasma samples from humans infected with P. vivax Experiment Information Title: Metabolomics of plasma samples from humans infected with Plasmodium vivax Experiment Description: Patients with vivax malaria were enrolled in this study from June 2011 to December 2012 at the Fundacao de Medicina Tropical Doutor Heitor Vieira Dourado (FMT-HVD), an infectious disease referral center located in Manaus, Western Brazilian Amazon. This study, which required a 42-day follow-up period, was approved by the FMT-HVD Institutional Review Board and the Brazilian National Ethics Committee (CONEP) (IRB approval #: CAAE: 12516713.8.0000.0005). All protocols and documentation were reviewed and sample shipments approved by the Emory IRB. Male and female patients were eligible for inclusion if aged 6 months to 60 years, bodyweight ≥5 kg, presenting a blood parasite density from 250 to 100,000 parasites/microliter and axillary temperature ≥37.5 C or history of fever in the last 48 hours. Exclusion criteria were: use of antimalarials in the previous 30 days, refusal to be followed up for 42 days and any clinical complication. Patients received supervised treatment with 25 mg/kg of chloroquine (CQ) phosphate over a 3-day period (10 mg/kg on day 0 and 7.5 mg/kg on days 1 and 2). Primaquine (0.5 mg/kg per day for 7 days) was prescribed at the end of the 42-day follow-up period. Patients who vomited the first dose within 30 minutes after drug ingestion were re-treated with the same dose. Patients were evaluated on days 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 28 and 42 and, if they felt ill, at any time during the study period. Blood smear readings, complete blood counts, and diagnostic polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifications were performed at all time points. Three aliquots of 100 μL of whole blood from the day of a recurrence were spotted onto filter paper for later analysis by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to estimate the levels of CQ and desethylchloroquine (DCQ) as previously described. In this study, CQ-resistance with parasitological failure was defined as parasite recurrence in the presence of plasma concentrations of CQ and DSQ higher than 100 ng/mL and microsatellite analysis revealing the presence of the same clonal nature at diagnosis and recurrence. The CQ-sensitive control group consisted of patients with no parasitemia recurring during follow-up period. A group of 20 healthy individuals from Brazil was used as non-malarial control group. Samples were obtained in collaboration with Wuelton M. Monteiro (Universidade do Estado do Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil and Fundacao de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira Dourado, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil) and Marcus V.G. Lacerda (Fundacao de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira Dourado, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil and Instituto Leonidas & Maria Deane (FIOCRUZ), Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil). Metabolomics results were produced by Dean Jones at Emory University. Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Metabolomics HuA Metabolomics Results at Metabolomics Workbench N/A Experiment HuB: Metabolomics of plasma samples from humans infected with P. falciparum and P. vivax Experiment Information Title: Metabolomics of plasma samples from humans infected with P. falciparum and P. vivax Experiment Description: This study is based on archived plasma from samples collected between 2011 and 2014. Patients in Thailand who were infected with P. falciparum (30 subjects), P. vivax (30 subjects), co-infected with P. falciparum and P. vivax (22 subjects) were included, alongside two sets of non-malaria cases: non-malarial febrile illnesses (30 subjects) and healthy controls (30 subjects). Malaria subjects were enrolled under ethics research protocol TMEC 11-033, and non-malaria cases were enrolled under TMEC 14-025, both approved by the Ethical Review Committee of the Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University, Thailand. All protocols and documentation were reviewed and sample shipments approved by the Emory IRB. Subjects were enrolled at the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) Malaria Clinics in the Kanchanaburi and Tak provinces clinic between August 2011 and August 2014. Patients were all adults, at least 18 years old, and not pregnant. Individuals were not treated prior to sample collection. Individuals with uncomplicated malaria cases were recruited for the study. Patients were parasitemic and symptomatic at admission, including some being febrile, but all lacked complications of severe malaria, according to WHO guidelines. Cases of non-malaria febrile illness (NMFI) were recruited as controls from the Fever Clinic of the Hospital for Tropical Diseases at Mahidol University. These individuals were febrile and were malaria-negative by thick smear microscopy and PCR, and had no history of taking antimalarial or antibiotic medications during the two weeks prior to their hospital visit. The NFMI cases were diagnosed as dengue, influenza, co-infection of the two pathogens, or unidentified febrile illness. Healthy individuals were also recruited at the Hospital for Tropical Diseases as a control group. They were afebrile, had no reported history of malaria infection or treatment, were malaria-negative as determined by thick smear and PCR, and were not on any medications. For healthy and NFMI samples, one mL of venous blood was collected in a heparin tube and plasma was aliquoted and frozen at -80C. For malaria patients, one mL of venous blood was collected in either a heparin or ACD tube, frozen, thawed for aliquoting, and refrozen again. A frozen aliquot was shipped on dry ice to Emory University for high-resolution mass spectrometry and metabolomics analyses. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment HuB'. Samples were obtained in collaborations with Jetsumon Prachumsri, Rapathborn Patrapuvich, Viravarn Luvira, Siriwan Rungin, Teerawat Saeseu, and Nattawan Rachaphaew at the Mahidol Vivax Research Unit and the Hospital for Tropical Diseases at Mahidol University. Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Metabolomics HuB Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights N/A Quantitative Metabolomics HuB Quantitative Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights N/A Experiment HuC: Metabolomics of plasma samples from human volunteers infected with P. vivax Experiment Information Title: Metabolomics of plasma samples from human volunteers infected with P. vivax Experiment Description: Sixteen healthy volunteers, 7 malaria naïve and 9 semi-immune, aged 18-45 years, were enrolled in this study during October 2012 to November 2013. Malaria-naïve volunteers were recruited in Cali, Colombia, a non-endemic city; those with previous malaria experience were recruited in Buenaventura, a malaria-endemic area on the Colombian Pacific Coast. The study was approved by Institutional Review Boards (IRB) of the Malaria Vaccine and Drug Development Center-MVDC (CECIV, Cali) and Centro Mèdico Imbanaco (Cali). All protocols and documentation were reviewed and samples shipments approved by the Emory IRB. Male and female patients were eligible for inclusion, which included two steps: 1) age between 15-60 years, hemoglobin levels > 9g/dL, presence of current P. vivax infection, absence of other Plasmodium species determined by thick blood smear and PCR, blood parasite count of 0.1% or more, absence of other acute or chronic diseases, being able to sign an informed consent form; 2) healthy 18 to 45 years old man or non-pregnant women, capacity to sign an informed consent in a free and voluntary way, acceptable understanding of the clinical trial through the approval of a questionnaire regarding the information given in the consent process, obligatory use of adequate contraceptive method from beginning of recruitment and screening time up to three months after last immunization, do not have chronic or acute diseases, accept not traveling to malaria endemic areas during the clinical trial, have telephone at home or mobile phone that permit permanent contact for follow up, being willing to participated during both steps of the clinical trial. Exclusion criteria included pregnancy, abnormal laboratory test values, hemoglobin pathology, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) deficiency, positive for blood bank infectious diseases (syphilis, HIV, Chagas disease, HTLV 1-2, and hepatitis B and hepatitis C), or have any condition that would increase the risk of an adverse outcome. Volunteers were infected with P. vivax via sporozoite challenge by exposing volunteers to bites of 2-4 mosquitoes ( Anopheles albimanus ) of the same infected batch. Plasma samples were collected at 4 time points: Baseline, 1 month pre-inoculation; Diagnosis; 3 weeks post-treatment; 4 months post-treatment. As soon as parasites were detected by thick blood smears, participants were treated orally with curative doses of chloroquine (1500 mg chloroquine provided in three doses: 600 mg initially then 450 mg doses at 24 and 48 hours) and primaquine (30 mg dose given once per day for 14 days). Clinical trial registration: NCT01585077. Samples were analyzed with liquid chromatography coupled to high resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS), evaluated in a time course and between naïve and semi-immune volunteers. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment HuC'. Samples were obtained in collaboration with Socrates Herrera from the Malaria Vaccine and Drug Development Center, Colombia. Metabolomics results were produced by Dean Jones at Emory University. Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Metabolomics HuC Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights N/A Publication(s) Integrative metabolomics and transcriptomics signatures of clinical tolerance to Plasmodium vivax reveal activation of innate cell immunity and T cell signaling. Gardinassi et al. Redox Biol. 2018 Jul;17:158-170 Experiment 03: Measures of infection and recrudescence in M. mulatta infected with P. coatneyi Hackeri strain Experiment Information Title: Experiment 03: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium coatneyi Hackeri strain to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, and omics measures of acute, recrudescent, and chronic infections. Experiment Description: Malaria-naive male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately four years of age, were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites produced and isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. dirus , An. gambiae , and An. stephensi ) and then profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was designed for 100 days, and pre- and post-100 day periods to prepare subjects and administer curative treatments respectively. The anti-malarial drug artemether was subcuratively administered to all subjects at the initial peak of infection, one out of the five macaques received four additional subcurative treatments for subsequent recrudescence peaks. The experimental infection in one subject was ineffective but the macaque was followed-up for the same period of 100 days. The different clinical phases of the infection were clinically determined for each subject. Blood-stage curative doses of artemether were administered to all subjects at the end of the study. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at seven time points for functional genomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and immunological analyses. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 03'. This dataset was produced by Alberto Moreno at Emory University. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E03 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads E03 Bone Marrow Cytology Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E03 Bone Marrow Expression Results at NCBI's GEO E03 Whole Blood Expression Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Proteomics E03 + E18 Proteomics Results at PRIDE N/A Lipidomics E03 Lipidomics Results at MassIVE N/A Immune Profiling E03 Immune Results at ImmPort N/A Metabolomics E03 Metabolomics Results at Metabolomics Workbench E03 Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights E03 Quantitative Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights N/A Computational Modeling Coming soon N/A View Larger Image Experiment 04: Measures of infection and relapse in M. mulatta infected with P. cynomolgi B strain Experiment Information Title: Experiment 04: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium cynomolgi B strain to produce clinical and omics measures of infection and relapse. Experiment Description: Malaria-naive male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately three years of age, were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. dirus , An. gambiae , and An. stephensi ) and then profiled for clinical, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was designed for 100 days, and pre- and post-100 day periods to prepare subjects and administer curative treatments respectively. The anti-malarial drug Artemether was subcuratively administered selectively to several subjects during the primary parasitemia to suppress clinical complications and to all animals for curative treatment of blood-stage infections to allow detection of relapses. One subject was euthanized during the 100-day experimental period due to clinical complications. The anti-malarial drugs Primaquine and Chloroquine were administered to all remaining subjects at the end of the study for curative treatment of the liver and blood-stage infections, respectively. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at seven time points for functional genomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and immunological analyses. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB and HostDB Clinical Malaria E04 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E04 Bone Marrow Expression Results at NCBI's GEO E04 Whole Blood Expression Results at NCBI's GEO PlasmoDB example gene page PlasmoDB Pcyn differential expression PlasmoDB Pcyn relative expression (percentile) HostDB example gene page HostDB Mmul differential expression HostDB Mmul relative expression (percentile) Proteomics E04 + E18 Proteomics Results at PRIDE N/A Lipidomics E04 Lipidomics Results at MassIVE N/A Immune Profiling E04 Immunology (Adaptive, Innate, Cytokine) Results at ImmPort N/A Metabolomics E04 Metabolomics Results at Metabolomics Workbench E04 Metabolomics Results at Metabolights N/A Computational Modeling Coming soon N/A Publication(s) Plasmodium cynomolgi infections in rhesus macaques display clinical and parasitological features pertinent to modelling vivax malaria pathology and relapse infections. Joyner et al. Malar J. 2016 Sep 2;15(1):451. View Larger Image Experiment 04R: Resequencing of Experiment 04 functional genomics Experiment Information Title: Experiment 04R: Experiment 04 Functional Genomics Resequencing - Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium cynomolgi B strain to produce clinical and omics measures of infection and relapse Experiment Description: Malaria-naive male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately three years of age, were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites produced and isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. dirus , An. gambiae , and An. stephensi ) and then profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was designed for 100 days, and pre- and post-100 day periods to prepare subjects and administer curative treatments respectively. The anti-malarial drug artemether was subcuratively administered selectively to several subjects during the primary parasitemia to suppress clinical complications and to all animals for curative treatment of blood-stage infections to allow detection of relapses. One subject was euthanized during the 100-day experimental period due to clinical complications. The anti-malarial drugs primaquine and chloroquine were administered to all remaining subjects at the end of the study for curative treatment of the liver and blood-stage infections, respectively. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at seven time points for functional genomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and immunological analyses. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 04R'. This dataset was produced by Yerkes Genomics Core. E04R is a 'resequencing' of the same samples from E04. Resequencing for E04R was processed with SOPs and technology consistent with that used for E23R, E24, and E25 so that results from these experiments could be reliably compared. E04R does not replace E04, these are distinct datasets. Relative to E04, E04R is only for MaHPIC Yerkes Sequencing and Functional Genomics results. Only E04R is intended for comparison with E23R, E24, and E25.The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E04 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E04R Results at NCBI's GEO N/A View Larger Image Experiment 06: Measures of acute primary infection in Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Experiment Information Title: Experiment 06: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium knowlesi sporozoites to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, omics, telemetric, and histopathological measures of acute primary infection. Experiment Description: Telemetry devices (DSI, model L11) with blood pressure sensors and electrocardiogram (ECG) leads were surgically implanted in four malaria-naive male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately five years of age. After a resting period of two weeks, physiological data that include activity, temperature, ECG, and blood pressure were continuously collected. Two weeks after activation of the telemetry implant, the macaques were inoculated intravenously with cryopreserved P. knowlesi Malayan strain salivary gland sporozoites, obtained from Anopheles dirus infected with parasites from the Pk1A+ clone and previously tested in E30 for their infectivity of macaques. The sporozoite stocks used were produced, isolated and cryopreserved at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and then stored at Yerkes. After inoculation, the macaques were profiled longitudinally for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was designed with pathology studies and thus terminal necropsies, which were scheduled at the log phase of the infections or at the peak of parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of complete blood counts, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomics analyses. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at five timepoints for functional genomic, targeted proteomic, targeted metabolomics, and immunological analyses. Physiological data noted above were continuously captured via the implanted telemetry devices. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 06'. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and the MRMC Office of Research Protection Animal Care and Use Review Office (ACURO). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB and HostDB Clinical Malaria E06 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E06 Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Metabolomics E06 Quantitative Metabolomics Results at Metabolights N/A Targeted Proteomics E06 Targeted Proteomics (SOMAScan) Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Telemetry E06 Telemetry Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A View Larger Image Experiment 07: Measures of acute primary infection in Macaca fascicularis infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Experiment Information Title: Experiment 07A and 07B: Macaca fascicularis infected with Plasmodium knowlesi sporozoites to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, omics, telemetric and histopathological measures of acute primary infection. Experiment Description: The E07 cohort was inoculated with freshly dissected P. knowlesi sporozoites on 11/01/16. However, for unexplained reasons blood-stage parasitemias did not occur. Consequently, the E07 cohort was reinoculated with cryopreserved P. knowlesi sporozoites. This inoculation was performed on 1/20/17. Hence 'E07A' refers to samples and results from the failed inoculation from 11/01/16 and 'E07B' refers to samples and results from the successful inoculation on 1/20/17). Telemetry devices (DSI, model L11) with blood pressure sensors and electrocardiogram (ECG) leads were surgically implanted in seven malaria-naive male long-tailed macaques ( Macaca fascicularis ), approximately five years of age. After a resting period of three weeks, the telemetry implants were turned on and physiological data that include activity, temperature, ECG, and blood pressure were continuously collected. After the E07A failed infection using a fresh preparation of salivary gland sporozoites, the implants were deactivated to preserve battery life. Between E07A and E07B, a single rhesus macaque ( M. mulatta ) was added to the cohort as an infection control with no telemetry implant. At the start of E07B, telemetry implants were reactivated. Ten days after reactivation all animals were inoculated intravenously with cryopreserved P. knowlesi Malayan strain salivary gland sporozoites, obtained from Anopheles dirus infected with parasites from the Pk1A+ clone and previously tested in E30 for their infectivity of macaques. The sporozoite stocks used were produced, isolated and cryopreserved at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and then stored at Yerkes. After inoculation, the macaques were profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was designed with pathology studies and thus terminal necropsies, which were scheduled at the log phase of the infection, at the peak of parasitemias, at the middle of the chronic phase, or at the end of the follow-up period of 45 days after the inoculation of the sporozoites. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of complete blood counts (CBCs), reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at six time points for functional genomic, targeted proteomic, targeted metabolomics, and immunological analyses. Physiological data noted above were continuously captured via telemetry. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 07 (E07A and 07B)'. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and the MRMC Office of Research Protection Animal Care and Use Review Office (ACURO). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB and HostDB Clinical Malaria E07A Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Clinical Malaria E07B Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E07 Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Metabolomics E07 Quantitative Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights N/A Targeted Proteomics E07 Targeted Proteomics (SOMAScan) Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Telemetry E07 Telemetry Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A View Larger Image Experiment 13: Control measures from uninfected M. mulatta exposed to pyrimethamine Experiment Information Title: Experiment 13: Uninfected Macaca mulatta exposed to pyrimethamine to produce clinical, hematological, and omics control measures. Experiment Description: Uninfected, malaria-naive, male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately two years of age, were inoculated intravenously with a preparation of salivary gland material derived from non-infected Anopheles dirus and profiled for clinical, hematological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. Samples were generated and analyzed to investigate the effects of the pharmacological intervention with the anti-malarial drug pyrimethamine on normal individuals. The experiment was designed for 100 days plus a follow-up period, with pyrimethamine administered at three different time points to coincide with the predicted treatment days of experimentally infected rhesus macaques. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs and reticulocytes. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood samples and bone marrow aspirates were collected at seven time points before and after three rounds of drug administration for functional genomic, proteomic, and lipidomic analyses. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E13 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E13 Sequence data at NCBI's SRA E13 Expression Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Lipidomics E13 Lipidomics Results at MassIVE N/A Metabolomics E13 Metabolomics Results at Metabolomics Workbench N/A Computational Modeling Coming soon N/A Publication(s) Comparative transcriptomics and metabolomics in a rhesus macaque drug administration study. Lee et al. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2014 Oct 8;2:54 View Larger Image Experiment 15: Measures of primary infection and relapse in Aotus nancymaae infected with Plasmodium vivax Experiment Information Title: Experiment 15: Aotus nancymaae infected with P. vivax Brazil VII to produce clinical and omics measures of primary infections and relapses. Experiment Description: Malaria-naive Aotus nancymaae were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites produced and isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. gambiae , An. stephensi , and An. freeborni ) then profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was performed for 121 days. The first inoculation attempt was virtually unsuccessful as only one of seven animals developed blood-stage infection. This animal was treated for the blood-stage infection. All animals were re-challenged approximately one month later. Upon re-challenge all animals developed blood-stage infections with similar parasitological kinetics. After infections became chronic, the anti-malarial drug artemether was administered to curatively treat blood-stage infections. No sub-curative treatments were administered during this study because none of the animals developed severe disease. At the end of the study, the anti-malarial drugs primaquine and chloroquine were administered to all animals for curative treatment of the liver and blood-stage infections, respectively. Venous blood samples were collected only on clinically determined 'timepoint' days for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, parasitemias, and downstream omics and immunological analyses. Small sample volumes were collected daily or every other day for the measurement of parasitemia. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 15'. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E15 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Immune Profiling E15 Immune Results at ImmPort N/A View Larger Image Experiment 18: Control measures from uninfected M. mulatta exposed to artemether Experiment Information Title: Experiment 18: Uninfected Macaca mulatta exposed to artemether to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, and omics control measures. Experiment Description: An uninfected, malaria-naive, male rhesus macaque ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately two years of age, was inoculated intravenously with a preparation of salivary gland material derived from non-infected Anopheles dirus and profiled for clinical, hematological, functional genomic, and proteomic measurements. Samples were generated and analyzed to investigate the effects of the pharmacological intervention with the anti-malarial drug artemether on normal individuals. The experiment was designed for 100 days, with artemether administered at three different time points to coincide with the predicted subcurative or curative treatment days of experimentally infected rhesus macaques. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs and reticulocytes. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood samples and bone marrow aspirates were collected at seven-time points before and after three rounds of drug administration for functional genomic and proteomic analyses. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Proteomics E18 + E03 Proteomics Results at PRIDE E18 + E04 Proteomics Results at PRIDE N/A Experiment 23: Iterative measures of infection and relapse in M. mulatta infected with P. cynomolgi B strain Experiment Information Title: Experiment 23: M. mulatta infected with P. cynomolgi B strain to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, and omics measures of acute primary infection and relapses. Experiment Description: Malaria-naive male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately four years of age, were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites produced and isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. dirus , An. gambiae , and An. stephensi ) and then profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was designed for about 100 days, with pre- and post-100 day periods to prepare subjects and administer curative treatments respectively. During the 100-day period subjects experienced periods of patent and sub-patent infection. The anti-malarial drug artemether was subcuratively administered to subjects after the initial peak of infection, if subjects were not able to self-resolve. Blood-stage curative artemether was administered to all subjects following peak infection, and following a period of relapse infection. All peaks were clinically determined for each subject. The anti-malarial drugs primaquine and chloroquine were administered to all subjects at the end of the study for curative treatment of the liver and blood-stage infections, respectively. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at seven time points for functional genomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and immunological analyses. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 23'. This is an iteration of Experiment 04 with the same parasite-host combination and sampling and treatment adjustments made, and this is the first in a series of experiments that includes subsequent homologous (Experiment 24, P. cynomolgi B strain) and heterologous (Experiment 25, P. cynomolgi strain ceylonensis) challenges of individuals from the Experiment 23 cohort. One subject was not included in subsequent experiments due to persistent behavioral issues that prevented sample collection. This dataset was produced by Alberto Moreno at Emory University. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E23 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics Coming Soon N/A Proteomics E23 Proteomics Results at PRIDE N/A Targeted Proteomics E23 Targeted Proteomics (SOMAScan) Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Lipidomics E23 Lipidomics Results at MassIVE N/A Immune Profiling E23 Immune Results at ImmPort N/A Metabolomics E23 Metabolomics Results at Metabolights N/A Computational Modeling Coming soon N/A View Larger Image Experiment 23R: Resequencing of Experiment 23 Functional Genomics Experiment Information Title: Experiment 23R: Experiment 23 Functional Genomics Resequencing - Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium cynomolgi B strain to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, and omics measures of acute primary infection and relapses. Experiment Description: Malaria-naive male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately four years of age, were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites produced and isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. dirus , An. gambiae , and An. stephensi ) and then profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment was designed for about 100 days, with pre- and post-100 day periods to prepare subjects and administer curative treatments respectively. During the 100-day period subjects experienced periods of patent and sub-patent infection. The anti-malarial drug artemether was subcuratively administered to subjects after the initial peak of infection, if subjects were not able to self-resolve. Blood-stage curative artemether was administered to all subjects following peak infection, and following a period of relapse infection. All peaks were clinically determined for each subject. The anti-malarial drugs primaquine and chloroquine were administered to all subjects at the end of the study for curative treatment of the liver and blood-stage infections, respectively. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at seven time points for functional genomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and immunological analyses. E23 is an iteration of Experiment 04 with the same parasite-host combination. E23 is the first in a series of experiments that includes subsequent homologous (Experiment 24, P. cynomolgi B strain) and heterologous (Experiment 25, P. cynomolgi strain ceylonensis) challenges of individuals from the E23 cohort. Note that one E23 subject was not included in subsequent experiments due to persistent behavioral issues that prevented sample collection. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 23R'. E23R is a 'resequencing' of all samples from E23, processed with SOPs and technology consistent with that used for E04R, E24, and E25 so that results from these experiments could be reliably compared. Only E23R is intended for comparison with E04R, E24, and E25. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E23 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E23R Expression Results at NCBI's GEO N/A View Larger Image Experiment 24: Iterative measures of infection and relapse in M. mulatta infected with P. cynomolgi B strain, in a homologous challenge Experiment Information Title: Experiment 24: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium cynomolgi B strain, in a homologous challenge, to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, and omics measures of acute primary infection and relapses Experiment Description: Male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), cleared of previous infection with P. cynomolgi B strain via treatment with the anti-malarial drugs artemether, chloroquine, and primaquine, approximately five years of age, were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites produced and isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. dirus , An. gambiae , and An. stephensi ) and then profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment included, 1 pre-inoculation day, 35 experiment days, and 10 post-experiment days. The anti-malarial drugs primaquine and chloroquine were administered to all subjects at the end of the study for curative treatment of the liver and blood-stage infections, respectively. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood samples were collected at three time points for functional genomic, lipidomic, and immunological analyses. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 24'. This is the second in a series of experiments that includes infection of malaria-naive subjects (Experiment 23, P. cynomolgi B strain) and heterologous challenge (Experiment 25, P. cynomolgi strain ceylonensis) for the individuals from the same cohort. This dataset was produced by Alberto Moreno at Emory University. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E24 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E24 Expression Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Immune Profiling E24 Immune Results at ImmPort N/A Metabolomics Coming Soon N/A Computational Modeling Coming soon N/A View Larger Image Experiment 25: Iterative measures of infection and relapse in M. mulatta infected with P. cynomolgi strain ceylonensis, in a heterologous challenge Experiment Information Title: Experiment 25: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium cynomolgi strain ceylonensis, in a heterologous challenge, to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, and omics measures of acute primary infection and relapses Experiment Description: Male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), cleared of previous infection with P. cynomolgi B strain via treatment with the anti-malarial drugs artemether, chloroquine, and primaquine, approximately five years of age, were inoculated intravenously with salivary gland sporozoites produced and isolated at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from multiple Anopheles species ( An. dirus , An. gambiae , and An. stephensi ) and then profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measurements. The experiment included, 8 pre-inoculation days, 49 experiment days, and 4 post-experiment days. The anti-malarial drug artemether was subcuratively administered to subjects at the initial peak of infection, if subjects were not able to self-resolve their parasitemias. Peak infection was determined clinically for each subject. The anti-malarial drugs primaquine and chloroquine were administered to all subjects at the end of the study for curative treatment of the liver and blood-stage infections, respectively. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of CBCs, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood samples were collected at five time points for functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, and immunological analyses. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 25'. This is the third and final of a series of experiments that includes infection of malaria-naive subjects (Experiment 23, P. cynomolgi B strain) and homologous challenge (Experiment 24, P. cynomolgi B strain) of individuals from the same cohort. This dataset was produced by Alberto Moreno at Emory University. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E25 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E25 Expression Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Lipidomics E25 Lipidomics Results at MassIVE N/A Immune Profiling E25 Immune Results at ImmPort N/A Metabolomics Coming Soon N/A Computational Modeling Coming soon N/A View Larger Image Experiment 30: Measures of acute infection of M. mulatta infected with P. knowlesi , pilot collection of telemetry data Experiment Information Title: Experiment 30: Pilot experiment for Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Malayan strain sporozoites to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, omics, telemetric and histopathological measures of acute primary infection. Experiment Description: Telemetry devices (DSI, model L11) with blood pressure sensors and electrocardiogram (ECG) leads were surgically implanted in two malaria-naive male rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), approximately three years of age. After a resting period of two weeks, physiological data that include activity, temperature, ECG, and blood pressure were continuously collected. Two weeks after activation of the telemetry implant, the macaques were inoculated intravenously with cryopreserved P. knowlesi Malayan strain salivary gland sporozoites, obtained from Anopheles dirus infected with parasites from the Pk1A+ clone. The P. knowlesi sporozoites were produced, isolated and cryopreserved at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. After inoculation, the macaques were profiled for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomic, lipidomic, proteomic, metabolomic, telemetric and histopathological measurements. The experiment was designed for pathology studies, with terminal necropsies on days 11 (RKy15) or 19 (Red16). The anti-malarial drug artemether was subcuratively administered selectively to one subject (REd16) during the primary parasitemia to suppress clinical complications. Capillary blood samples were collected daily for the measurement of complete blood counts, reticulocytes, and parasitemias. Capillary blood samples were collected every other day to obtain plasma for metabolomic analysis. Venous blood and bone marrow samples were collected at five timepoints for functional genomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and immunological analyses. Physiological data were continuously captured via telemetry. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 30'. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and the MRMC Office of Research Protection Animal Care and Use Review Office (ACURO). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E30 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject E30 Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Targeted Proteomics E30 Targeted Proteomics (SOMAScan) Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Lipidomics E30 Lipidomics Results at MassIVE N/A Immune Profiling Coming Soon N/A Metabolomics E30 Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights E30 Quantitative Metabolomics Results at MetaboLights N/A Computational Modeling Coming soon N/A Telemetry E30 Telemetry Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A View Larger Image Experiment 33: Mixed cohort of Macaca mulatta and Macaca fascicularis infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Malayan strain to study actute infection. Experiment Information Title: Experiment 33: Mixed cohort of Macaca mulatta and Macaca fascicularis infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Malayan strain sporozoites to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, omics, and histopathological measures of acute primary infection. Experiment Description: A mixed cohort of six malaria-naive male Macaca mulatta (n=2) and Macaca fascicularis (n=4) were inoculated intravenously with P. knowlesi Malayan strain cryo-preserved salivary gland sporozoites, obtained from Anopheles dirus infected with parasites from the Pk1A+ clone and previously confirmed in E30, E06 and E07 for their infectivity of macaques. The P. knowlesi sporozoites stocks had been generated, isolated and cryopreserved at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and then stored at Yerkes. The experiment was designed to contain one baseline time point seven days prior to sporozoite inoculation, six time points after inoculation and terminal necropsies (for pathology studies) scheduled after peaking parasitemias. Venous whole blood and bone marrow aspirate samples were collected at time points to profile for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics measurements. A single sub-curative dose of chloroquine was administered via I.M. to the M. mulatta animals at the rise of the infection to dampen the high predictably lethal parasitemias in this species. A subsequent time point was collected to examine the effect of chloroquine on host pathways and whether the M. mulatta host responses became similar to the naturally controlling M. fascicularis host responses. Daily collection of capillary samples was performed for the clinical measurement of complete blood counts, reticulocytes, parasitemias and for sample banking. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 33'. This dataset was produced by Monica Cabrera-Mora and Chester J Joyner at the Yerkes Primate Research Center at Emory University. To access other publicly available results from 'E33' and other MaHPIC Experiments, including clinical results (specifics on drugs administered, diet, and veterinary interventions), and other omics, visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and the MRMC Office of Research Protection Animal Care and Use Review Office (ACURO). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E33 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Experiment 34: Control necropsy of a mixed cohort of Macaca mulatta and Macaca fascicularis Experiment Information Title: Experiment 34: Control necropsy of a mixed cohort of Macaca mulatta and Macaca fascicularis to produce a set of normal clinical, hematological, immunological and omics measures, and normal tissue samples for histological comparison Experiment Description: A mixed cohort of six malaria-naive male Macaca mulatta (n=3) and Macaca fascicularis (n=3) were necropsied to provide normal tissue samples as controls for the analysis of MaHPIC infection experiments involving these macaque species. Venous whole blood and bone marrow aspirate samples were collected at necropsy to profile clinical, hematological, immune response and functional genomics measurements. Plasma samples were also banked for proteomics and metabolomics measurements, rectal swabs for microbiome studies, and a panel of tissue samples for histological comparisons. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 34'. This dataset was produced by Monica Cabrera-Mora at Emory University. To access other publicly available results from E34 and other MaHPIC experiments, including clinical results (specifics on drugs administered, diet, and veterinary interventions), and other omics, visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and the MRMC Office of Research Protection Animal Care and Use Review Office (ACURO). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E34 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Experiment 35: Mixed cohort of Macaca mulatta and Macaca fascicularis infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Malayan strain to study chronic infection. Experiment Information Title: Experiment 35: Mixed cohort of Macaca mulatta and Macaca fascicularis infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Malayan strain sporozoites to produce and integrate clinical, hematological, parasitological, omics, and histopathological measures of chronic infections. Experiment Description: A mixed cohort of seven malaria-naive male Macaca mulatta (n=3) and Macaca fascicularis (n=4) were inoculated intravenously with P. knowlesi Malayan strain cryo-preserved salivary gland sporozoites, obtained from Anopheles dirus infected with parasites from the Pk1A+ clone and previously confirmed in E30, E06, E07, and E34 for their infectivity of macaques. The P. knowlesi sporozoites stocks had been generated, isolated and cryopreserved at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and then stored at Yerkes. The experiment was designed to contain two baseline time points at days -13 and -42 prior to sporozoite inoculation, four ( M. mulatta ) or six ( M. fascicularis ) time points after inoculation, plus terminal necropsies (for pathology studies) scheduled between days 48-50 at a time when all animals had chronic infections. Venous whole blood and bone marrow aspirate samples were collected at all time points for clinical, hematological, parasitological, immunological, functional genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics measurements, or sample storage for future testing. Sub-curative doses of artemether were administered via I.M. to the M. mulatta animals at the initial high parasitemia and subsequent lower rises of parasitemias when necessary to dampen the parasitemias and allow a chronic infection to develop. No subcurative doses of artemether were needed for the M. fascicularis , which naturally controlled their parasitemias from the time of the first rise of parasites in the blood. Daily collection of capillary samples was performed for the clinical measurement of complete blood counts, reticulocytes, and parasitemias, and for sample banking. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 35'. This dataset was produced by Monica Cabrera-Mora at Emory University. To access other publicly available results from E35 and other MaHPIC experiments, including clinical results (specifics on drugs administered, diet, and veterinary interventions), and other omics, visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and the MRMC Office of Research Protection Animal Care and Use Review Office (ACURO). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E35 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Supporting Experiment 01: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium knowlesi ex vivo time course. Experiment Information Title: Supporting Experiment 01: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium knowlesi Pk1(A+), Pk1(B+)1+, Pk1(C+) ex vivo time course Experiment Description: Malaria-naive rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta ), were inoculated with a particular parasite clone and allowed to reach a targeted peak parasitemia of 5% - 10% proportion of infected RBCs. Whole blood was collected at the early ring stage while subjects were under anesthesia, and an ex vivo culture was established using standard protocols, which include but are not limited to the processing of the whole blood by removing platelets and white blood cells. Samples were collected starting at 1.5-2 hours after establishing cultures, followed by collections every 4 hours for a 24-hour period. Blood-stage curative doses of the anti-malarial drug chloroquine were administered to all subjects after whole blood extraction from each subject. Parasitemias were monitored daily by ear sticks. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Supporting Project 01'. To access other publicly available results from 'S01' including proteomics and other MaHPIC Experiments, visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Functional Genomics MaHPIC Umbrella BioProject S01 Results at NCBI's GEO N/A Supporting Experiment 05: Investigation of P. vivax trophozoite-schizont transition proteome Experiment Information Title: Supporting Experiment 05: Investigation of P. vivax trophozoite-schizont transition proteome Experiment Description: The apicomplexan parasite Plasmodium vivax reportedly caused 13.8 million cases of vivax malaria in 2015. Much of the unique biology of this pathogen remains unknown. To expand our proteomics interrogation of the blood-stage interaction with its host animal model Saimiri boliviensis , we analyzed the proteome of infected host reticulocytes undergoing transition from the trophozoite to schizont stages. Two biological replicates analyzed using five database search engines identified 1923 P. vivax and 3188 S. boliviensis proteins. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Integral Supporting Project 05 (S05)'. This dataset was produced by Dave Anderson at SRI International. Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Proteomics S05 Proteomics Results at PRIDE N/A Publication(s) A large scale Plasmodium vivax - Saimiri boliviensis trophozoite-schizont transition proteome. Anderson et al. PLoS One. 2017 12(8):e0182561 Experiment 01: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium coatneyi Hackeri strain infected red blood cells Experiment Information Title: Experiment 01: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium coatneyi Hackeri strain infected red blood cells Experiment Description: Be aware that though this dataset is included in the body of MaHPIC results, it was produced before the MaHPIC project started. As of this writing, only the clinical results are planned for public release. Also, different from most MaHPIC datasets, there are no clinical timepoints included in the results. Before the experimental infection, the macaques received an intravenous infusion of a water-soluble biotin derivative to determine the erythrocyte lifespan via daily quantification of the biotinylated cells using flow cytometry. Clinical, hematological, parasitological, and metabolomics measures were collected in the course of the infection. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 01'. This dataset was produced by Dr. Alberto Moreno and Monica Cabrera-Mora at Emory University. To access other publicly available data from MaHPIC Experiments visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E01 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Experiment 02: Uninfected Macaca mulatta that serve as a control for in vivo biotinylation studies Experiment Information Title: Experiment 02: Uninfected Macaca mulatta that serve as a control for in vivo biotinylation studies Experiment Description: Be aware that though this dataset is included in the body of MaHPIC results, it was produced before the MaHPIC project started. As of this writing, only the clinical results are planned for public release. Also, different from most MaHPIC datasets, there are no clinical timepoints included in the results. The macaques received an intravenous infusion of a water-soluble biotin derivative to determine the erythrocyte lifespan via daily quantification of the biotinylated cells using flow cytometry. Clinical, hematological, and metabolomics measures were collected in the course of the follow-up. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 02'. This dataset was produced by Dr. Alberto Moreno Emory University. To access other publicly available data from MaHPIC Experiments visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E02 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Experiment 20: Macaca mulatta infected with Plasmodium coatneyi Hackeri strain infected red blood cells exposed to a homologous re-challenge Experiment Information Title: Experiment 20: Macaca mulatta previously infected with Plasmodium coatneyi Hackeri strain infected red blood cells exposed to a homologous re-challenge 11 months after the first infection (E01). Experiment Description: Be aware that though this dataset is included in the body of MaHPIC results, it was produced before the MaHPIC project started. As of this writing, only the clinical results are planned for public release. Also, different from most MaHPIC datasets, there are no clinical timepoints included in the results. Before the experimental infection, the macaques received an intravenous infusion of a water-soluble biotin derivative to determine the erythrocyte lifespan via daily quantification of the biotinylated cells using flow cytometry. Clinical, hematological, parasitological, and metabolomics measures were collected in the course of the infection. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 20'. This dataset was produced by Dr. Alberto Moreno at Emory University. To access other publicly available data from MaHPIC Experiments visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E20 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A Experiment 21: Uninfected Macaca mulatta that serve as a control for in vivo biotinylation studies ten months after the first infusion (E02) Experiment Information Title: Experiment 21: Uninfected Macaca mulatta that serve as a control for in vivo biotinylation studies ten months after the first infusion (E02) Experiment Description: Be aware that though this dataset is included in the body of MaHPIC results, it was produced before the MaHPIC project started. As of this writing, only the clinical results are planned for public release. Also, different from most MaHPIC datasets, there are no clinical timepoints included in the results. The macaques received a second intravenous infusion of a water-soluble biotin derivative ten months after the first infusion (E02) to determine the erythrocyte lifespan via daily quantification of the biotinylated cells using flow cytometry. Clinical, hematological, and metabolomics measures were collected in the course of the follow-up. Within the MaHPIC, this project is known as 'Experiment 21'. This dataset was produced by Dr. Alberto Moreno at Emory University. To access other publicly available data from MaHPIC Experiments visit http://plasmodb.org/plasmo/mahpic.jsp . This page will be updated as datasets are released to the public. The experimental design and protocols for this study were approved by the Emory University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Data Links Data from MaHPIC Team Data Available from Data Integrated into PlasmoDB Searches Clinical Malaria E21 Clinical Data in PlasmoDB Downloads N/A VEuPathDB makes genomic, phenotypic, and population-centric data accessible to the scientific community. PlasmoDB provides support for these organisms . This project is funded by the Fund for Advancement of Science and Medicine, Open Philanthropy and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, with additional support from the Universities of Pennsylvania and Georgia and the Wellcome Trust (Resource Grants 212929 & 218288). https://veupathdb.org https://amoebadb.org https://cryptodb.org https://fungidb.org https://giardiadb.org https://hostdb.org https://microsporidiadb.org https://piroplasmadb.org https://plasmodb.org https://toxodb.org https://trichdb.org https://tritrypdb.org https://vectorbase.org https://orthomcl.org https://clinepidb.org https://microbiomedb.org ©2025 The VEuPathDB Project Team This website requires cookies & limited processing of your personal data in order to function properly. By clicking any link on this page you are giving your consent to this as outlined in our Privacy Policy . I agree, close this banner.